The victim is Tony sallinger.
64. It was his wedding.
We all know Ian monkford
from the drugs squad.
Thanks for the intel on
the contaminated batch.
What was Tony's blood type when
he gave a sample at the hospital?
A positive. When he died. he was
o positive. Now we have a case.
Who's for a more fitting send-off?
Arrest her. She was secretly
recording mother with her phone.
It would be best if you
went back to Manchester.
I've found Richard on
Saturday night. He lied.
Why would he do that if he
didn't have anything to hide?
If the blood changed.
somebody else must have done it.
I've brought you this.
Your disregard for protocol isn't
charming. Jim. It's dangerous.
It will end up getting
someone killed one day.
It might not be you. but
someone always gets hurt.
Have you rung that vet yet?
Was I supposed to?
You really liked her profile.
Well. yeah. I did. until she said yolo.
Granny wants us there from
six to meet and greet - her words.
Have you rsvp'd? You have to
rsvp? Yes. It said so on the invite.
There was an invite? My gosh! I'll do it.
All right? You seem a bit wired.
I'm excited.
I love a party.
I woke up this morning
and I wanted a drink.
I thought I had it cracked.
I stopped coming to meetings.
I didn't think I was in danger any more.
But now my daughter is moving away.
She's got a place in this...
This amazing school on the mainland...
And I'm scared.
She gives sobriety a point.
If I drink. there's a consequence.
She knows it. too...
She got me on a dating app.
She wants me to find someone to...
To make an effort for. she says.
She means someone to stop
me setting fire to my life. because...
I could.
I have.
Yeah. we... We all have.
Hi.
Anybody else?
Tasha. go ahead.
How did you know I'd be here?
I was literally about to
ask you the same thing.
This is my third 8am meeting.
You've never been here before.
You said you were leaving.
I changed my mind. I
thought I'd have a mini-break.
I grew up here.
I told you. your father's death
has been investigated twice.
I know.
I was there when you told me.
Don't do this.
Nicola. it's a live investigation.
Don't get in our way.
My god. the zoo.
I forgot about the zoo.
That's today sorted.
Kara?
You're kidding me?
Morning. Morning. Thank you.
Morning. everyone. Morning. Morning.
Called in at 8am this morning.
Putting time of death between
7pm and 10pm last night.
What do you think Ian?
This is more your wheelhouse.
Accidental overdose?
Well. there's... There's
no sign of violence.
there's no injuries. so. if it walks
like a duck. talks like a duck...
Could it be the contaminated batch?
I mean. I suppose so.
That stopped circulating weeks ago.
and it's not like they hold
on to this stuff for a rainy day.
Where's the rest of it?
Sorry. how do you mean?
Well. there's a syringe but
there's no paper. no wrapper.
What were the drugs in? Right. well...
What sometimes happens
is another user will come in
and they'll see leftovers and they'll. like...
Well. they'll just grab
everything they can.
I mean. it might even have
been whoever phoned it in.
If toxicology come back and
it's the contaminated batch.
talk to your guys. get
them to prioritise this.
I do not want this stuff on
the streets any longer. Right.
Actually. would you
mind waiting in the car?
I just want to brief the
team. No. Of course.
We know that Karl gave
a statement at the inquest
into Sally Mercer's death
that basically exonerated Tony.
but it's possible that he changed
it from a previous statement
that said Tony was in fact
drunk at the time of the accident.
then our first question to
Karl would have been. "why?"
If someone heard Tony's speech...
But we keep coming back to this crash.
It connects Tony to Andy the
waiter. it connects Tony to Karl.
so familiarise yourselves with the details.
cross reference with
everyone at the wedding.
Maybe there's another
link we've missed. Yeah.
Listen. liaise with Ian.
but. moving forward. let's
keep some clean lines.
He is just here to help us with
phone footage and identify guests.
Everything else is need-to-know.
Is this on us? Should we have
arrested Richard last night?
It wasn't Richard.
We don't know that. If he was
bribed and he saw Tony's speech.
this could be him going around
clearing up anyone else who knew.
It wasn't Richard. I
went to see him again.
He was screwing some nurse
while Tony's bloods were being taken
and he was still screwing her
on the night of Tony's murder.
We were supposed to be going
through professional standards.
I just thought it would've been
quicker if I spoke to him direct.
And. look. have you got any photos
on your phone from ten years ago?
Group shots. parties. that sort
of thing. You and other officers.
Can you email them to me? Hang on.
When exactly were you planning
on telling me about Richard?
That was me telling you. Right.
so who are we looking at now?
I will get back to you on that one.
In the meantime.
send me those pictures.
Along here. I'm thinking tinted mirrors.
I went to this restaurant in covent garden
where they had these boughs
of blossom - artificial. sure -
around tinted mirrors. It
made it absolutely magical.
Who are your target customers?
You know. income level.
age. that sort of thing.
Elite. established middle-class.
and technical middle-class.
What's the churn rate of
other restaurants nearby?
Less than the national average.
The French restaurant across the
road has been trading for 12 years.
The Japanese. which
we should try. by the way.
has been trading for ten.
So. who needs another restaurant?
I made dummy bookings at both.
There's a three-week
waiting list for the French
and a month for the Japanese.
No further questions. Though
I may probe you more later.
Mrs hungerford!
Good. That's Daniel.
my business partner.
Hiya. Daniel. Hi. I need
to talk to you. Right.
Is everything all right?
Where's he gone? I wanted
to meet him. He... No. he...
There's been a bit of a hitch.
Too tedious to talk about.
Nigel. what sort of hitch? An investor.
Told you. boring.
Now. I hope you know
as much about kitchens
so you can grill me some more.
Grill me!
Then there's nothing? Literally
no-one enters or exits the road?
Ok. take it back
further. to 6pm last night.
Taking it back.
Right. stop. Go back.
Going back now.
Ok...
Ok. there's Karl furman.
He comes in at what? 7:14pm.
Then no-one enters or exits the
road until after his time of death.
Which means that whoever killed
him must've already been at the house.
Or...
They came from the other end.
What's at the other
end? Mount pleasant.
You don't have any cameras
there. We only found Karl furman
cos he was on royal
square. then we lost him.
Picked him up here. Hang on a
second. Found him? When was this?
7:14pm yesterday. like you said.
Called it in straight away.
I thought that's why you're
here. Who did you speak to?
I don't know. Some bloke.
Said someone was going to look into it.
Bye. then.
Hi. Nicola. How are you doing?
Hey. Any news?
About what?
You need to get your guy
from forsyte and find out
if they're doing this across
the board or if it's just us.
Sorry. Nicola. Go on. You were...
You said you might. with
Monica. just. I don't know.
just see how she's behaving.
Yes. I'm going to see her tomorrow
and I'm just going to ask her straight out
when Tony told her I own
the company. Are you sure?
Be careful. It'll be fine.
I'll wear a stab jacket.
Sorry. Nicola. I have to go now.
Ok. Well. let me know
how you get on either...
I remember it because my mate Annie
was shagging the
officer who brought him in.
Didn't we all know about it.
She said his name.
but I'm shit with names.
so it didn't mean anything to me
and I thought she'd made him up.
Then. one day. there he is.
Anyway. her and her fella piss off.
There's a storeroom downstairs
and. all I'm saying is. it locks
from the inside. so I'm left to
sort it with the other copper.
And the... The other
officer. did you know him?
It's Jersey. love. We know most of you.
We're all at the sharp end. aren't we?
Well. if I showed you a picture
of him. would you recognise him?
Go on. but I've got handover
in about two minutes...
No.
Nope.
No. I liked him. What happened to him?
Quit. He opened a garden centre.
No.
That's him.
You're sure that's the police officer
who took the bloods from Tony sallinger?
I don't remember him arriving
with the first officer. but...
He must have.
Are we done? Yeah.
Thank you.
I've got the... a guy from cctv
said he called last night about
a possible sighting of Karl furman
near the location where he died.
Yeah. He said he spoke
to a man in this office.
There's nothing logged
on the cms. It wasn't me.
Do you want me to ask around? No. no.
I don't know. Not yet.
Right. what's this? This is...
It's Karl furman's toxicology.
Why are you whispering?
Because Jim said that
we need to be careful
about what we're
sharing with Ian. so... Ian!
Listen. bergerac likes to overstate things.
This is drugs. drugs is Ian's
thing. we involve Ian. Yeah.
Karl furman's toxicology.
Go on. So. there's traces of
heroin and fentanyl in his blood.
Hang on. So it was the bad batch?
Well. it happens. We don't know
how much was in the initial shipment.
No. no. no. It's like I said.
this stuff gets used up quickly.
it's in short supply. Why
would it turn up again now?
Well. it doesn't always follow a pattern.
It's addicts. dude. It's chaos.
But. you know. Jim is right. We
need to make it our top priority now.
I'll talk to my boys. Right.
Well done. Thanks.
I'm popping out. Kara.
What the fuck do I care?
Leah. What do you think about food?
Steak and kidney pie.
Ok. one more. then I'll get
someone to show you the cells.
Knock. knock.
Akeel. my man. I need a favour.
I'm trying to find out if one of
my team was down here last night.
Long story.
About 7:30pm.
Yeah. got it.
So. just Ian monkford at 7:27pm?
Yeah.
That's cool. Thanks. No problem.
Where's Ian gone? Just
said he was popping out.
What about Jim?
You do know it's not my job to
keep track... if Ian comes back in here.
keep him here and call me.
Same goes for Jim.
A taser. it can take a
man down in seconds.
You know. it's been
so lovely to see you all.
I have someone waiting outside.
I hope you've learnt
some interesting things.
Fuck's sake.
Call me. It's urgent.
Di Crozier. Sir.
I just wanted to say again.
hard cheese on the promotion.
Don't worry about it. You haven't
seen Ian monkford. have you?
We all thought you
were mightily impressive.
In fact. we were poised to
offer you the job. Were you?
I'm so cross with myself now. I
shouldn't have listened to him.
He gets these... They're like vendettas.
I mean. I'm the living
proof of that. Got the t-shirt.
Listened to who? Jim bergerac.
I asked him for his
view on you and. well...
Wait. Jim is where the
initiative thing came from?
The lesson is. or the
lesson for us. anyway.
is to trust your gut. I mean.
you were the stand-out applicant.
So. promise me you'll reapply next year?
Yes. sir.
Good man.
Maybe it was money. I mean.
maybe it was just because him
and Tony were friends.
but Ian swapped the bloods.
and that's how Tony
dodged any responsibility
for Sally Mercer's death. So
how does Richard come in to this?
As the attending officer. he
should have supervised the taking
of the blood. but instead he slips
away to screw a nurse in a cupboard.
Right. So he's not corrupt. he's
just an unprofessional arsehole.
I thought you liked Richard.
I can't stand Richard.
which is why I was so pissed
off when you and Barney
handed him the moral high
ground on a velvet cushion.
Anyway. look. years later.
Tony's getting married. he
falls in to a swimming pool.
and Sally Mercer's brother saves his life.
Boom. Like. road to
Damascus conversion.
So he gets up to do his
speech and he basically says.
"guys. I'm going to come
clean." No more secrets.
Exactly. Ian panics. because
that means him going to prison.
so Ian kills Tony.
Bring him in.
Why aren't you at the station. Ian?
Yeah. I've got a bit of a gyppy tummy.
I did tell Kara. Did she not say?
A call came in last night from cctv.
They'd located Karl furman.
Was it you they spoke to?
Last night? Well. what time was that?
7:15pm. About ten minutes before
you went to the evidence room.
What was that about?
That was... What was that? That was...
Tony had this watch.
Not a rolex. but. still.
something fancy. Right.
I couldn't remember seeing it
on the body. or even in the room.
so I thought. "shit. is it that simple?"
You know. he was being robbed.
But. no. it was in
evidence. so shit theory.
This is way out of your remit.
You're supposed to be
compiling mobile footage.
Yeah. but it was niggling
me and Jim wasn't there.
and I thought I'd just check.
You could have run it past
me. Jim's in charge. barnabus.
Do you really think today is
the day to fuck with me. Ian?
Because do you know
what's really weird?
Last night Karl furman overdosed
on the contaminated batch of heroin.
all of which. as far as we
know. was in that evidence room.
Yeah. right.
As far as we know.
You know. I really wanted to be wrong.
I really wanted you to just explain
this whole thing away... explain?
Explain what? I just did.
I just told you.
Ian monkford. I'm arresting
you on suspicion of...
Barney. mate...! Let it go. Ian.
Let it...!
Grab him.
All right. all right.
I told him to be here at six.
He's probably just held
up in the rush hour traffic.
He'll be here any minute. you watch.
They're here. Such fun.
Hi! You look amazing.
Look at you. with your faith in Jim.
All new. clean. and shiny.
It's adorable.
So why didn't you tell me
what you were thinking?
With Richard?
Or. with Ian?
I mean. that's kind of my point.
I just... I thought it would
be quicker if I did it myself.
Look. I have a way of working. ok?
And. I don't know. I just...
Sometimes the time it
takes to explain something...
To? To anyone. Like your team?
My god.
This lone wolf bullshit.
Tell me about this initiative thing.
What initiative thing? Whatever
you said to Richard gibbon.
I said... I said I thought you were great.
And that. you know. the job is
about initiative and that you...
You have initiative.
You know. the doctors told me that
if Ian had stabbed me three inches
to the left. he'd have hit
my aorta and I'd be dead.
so maybe just don't
bullshit me today. Jim.
I said you have initiative when...
When you show it.
Got you.
He caught me off-guard. ok?
It came out wrong. See.
I don't think it did. Jim.
because. ultimately. you
don't think I'm any good.
You don't think anyone's
any good. It can only be you.
I really don't think that. Barney.
You wouldn't give up that space.
You went to see Ian on your
own. You want to talk about that?
Really? Yeah. ok. I did.
because I only had half the facts.
If you'd shared your suspicions with me.
I would have taken backup.
but you didn't. so I didn't.
Maybe I was trying
to show some initiative.
You know. Jim. you're
this great detective.
but you're greedy and you're
vain. and you're impulsive.
and that makes you
dangerous to be around.
Now. fuck off. I've got to rest.
It's been a day.
You're not worried about
the competition. are you?
What competition? Well.
some of those overseas students
will have been playing the violin
since they were in the womb.
I saw a thing. and in some
countries they. like. breed them.
Literally. No. we're all
on the same level. I think.
Ok.
You know the worst thing?
No-one's surprised any more.
No-one expects you to be on time.
You've become that father.
The one that couples talk about
when they're getting ready for bed.
Let me get in the door. Charlie.
Charlie. the caterers are saying
they're running low on champagne
but they do have a
very pleasant prosecco.
Which would be lovely
if this was a hen party.
Who said that? Point them out.
Hi. Sorry.
Hi.
You must be a bit excited.
I mean. I love her. but I can't
wait for esmay to leave home.
All that time to myself. Time to think.
Well. I'm excited for Kim.
No-one needing you. no responsibilities.
I mean. I know. I know. work.
blah-blah. but the freedom...
Ooh!
Cheers.
I... I'm good. Thank you.
I felt like that after my divorce.
This sense of liberation...
I'm just going to... Excuse
me just for one second.
Right. everyone. sorry. Time for a toast.
Just time for a toast. I think.
What's he doing?
Can we gather. please?
I just want to say... Just a few... Words.
God. you might be wondering
why I've gathered you all here.
I've always wanted to say that.
Kim... Kim. aren't you just amazing?
Isn't she. everyone? Hear. hear.
Isn't she amazing? Yes. Yes!
And. look. you're going to have
just a wonderful time in that London.
and...
I'm just so... I'm so proud of
you and so just in awe of you
and... and so excited for you
to just soar off in to the world
and make. and make music and...
I am so bad at giving speeches.
This was an absolutely terrible idea.
To Kim.
To Kim!
Kim. you are my world
entire. you are my inspiration.
and. god. everything you
touch you make better.
My life.
Your grandmother's life.
And. well. even Nigel's life.
- This is Nigel. everyone.
- Charlie's new Beau.
- Say. "hi. Nigel."
- Hi. Nigel.
They're having sex.
God!
Dad! Yep. they are.
and good on them. I think.
because. you know. not
everyone gets to be old. My god.
Kim's mum. for example.
She would have loved tonight.
She... She was something else.
And funny.
So funny. so...
Pure and... And good.
Why did she have to die. and... And not...
You. for example?
No offence. but genuine question.
That's enough now. Jim.
I can make a speech at
my daughter's wedding!
Wedding... I can make a speech
at my daughter's leaving-do.
Charlie. yeah? Or do you
need to control that as well?
And. just fyi. six o'clock
is too early to start a party.
And. also. I don't know
who half of these people are.
and while we're on the subject.
why aren't you in pieces...? Dad!
How can you host a...
You know... you know...
You're cold. Charlie. Sorry.
Darling. this is a happy night.
ok? Stop. This is a happy night.
What's the matter? What's
wrong with everyone?
Have we done a toast?
Have we done the toast? Yeah.
No. let's do another toast to... Rachel.
Where's the music? Come
on. Jim. let's step out for a bit
of fresh air. Get off me. I'm
just doing a speech. Nigel.
I think you've covered
everything. Ooh... dad!
Sorry... shit.
No. it was an accident.
Kim... Kim. it was an accident.
One drink!
I'll ask you one last time.
sir. please step away.
Fuck that!
What?
Hey. no. no. no. Why...
How come they're getting in?
Cos they're not drunk. I'm not drunk!
You're insane.
Look. I just want one
drink. Look... all right!
Hey... hey! This is how
you want to play this. yeah?
Do you know who I am?
Jim! Brown suede jacket... Jim!
Urgh!
Is that wine?!
I'm going to be sick.
Mate.
Come on.
Relax. I didn't take advantage.
The state you were in. it would
have been kind of pointless anyway.
How did you find me?
I was just out doing my thing
and came across you
arguing with a bouncer.
You were about to get arrested.
And no-one wants to
see that headline. right?
I drank.
What was the occasion?
My daughter's leaving party.
So. what do we do in these situations?
If we get a move on.
we can make the 8am.
No. I'm late for work. I...
We're in the middle of a murder
inquiry. One of my team was stabbed.
Jim... I will go to one later. I promise.
Yeah. you won't.
Let's have a meeting
here. No. I can't do that.
We have chairs. we
have tea and biscuits
and we have alcoholics.
Nicola. I don't have the
strength to argue with you. ok?
Just how I like my men.
Sit.
Hi.
I'm Nicola and I'm an alcoholic.
Hi. Nicola.
It's been four years and 11
months since my last drink.
I was... I was seeing this guy.
God. I loved him.
But I loved drink more...
So we broke up.
And I was just outraged...
And I had this amazing idea that...
I should tell him.
So...
After maybe... Eight bloody Marys.
I went to where he worked and...
I ended up vomiting
on the floor of their foyer.
The look he gave me...
Jim. you know that look.
I think you saw that look last night.
Yeah.
Right...
I saw that look and I never drank again.
Burn it into your brain.
Because it's your superpower now.
You're bulletproof now.
Mondays for food waste. Tuesdays
for recycling. Fridays for garden waste.
Now. what bit of that
is confusing to you?!
My mother is in mourning. I know.
She wants to think about
happier things. not your bins.
which are here three days too early!
What do you want?
I... I've come to see your mum.
So have you come to kick me out?
Is there a removal Van
waiting around the corner?
What? No. God. no.
No. you can stay here
as long as you like.
Don't worry. it won't be long.
This was never my home.
It wasn't even Tony's home.
Will you move back
in with Michael? God!
Haven't I suffered enough?
Yes. I expect so.
But. anyway. enough about me.
How are you?
I genuinely don't know.
I've been so focused on the business...
But it's coming - the grief.
I'm sort of bartering with it. you know?
Just let me get this sale across the line.
Do you think I can avoid it?
It doesn't work like
that. It's going to hit you.
It has to.
And when it does. you
listen to me. when it arrives.
you come and find me. ok?
Look. there's something I...
When did Tony tell you that
I own the company outright?
About a week before the wedding.
And you were ok with it?
Well. yes. Ruth. I didn't
marry him for money.
No. of course not. but I know
he was worried about telling you.
so I thought maybe that's what
"no more secrets" was about.
But it couldn't have been. I already knew.
God. What's he done now?
Well done. big boy?!
It's not going to be me.
you stupid idiot! Michael!
Why don't you get down on your
hands and feet and clean it up?!
Michael! What?! What?! Just
calm down. I am perfectly calm!
I'm so sorry about this.
Don't apologise to him!
Ian monkford is going to be transferred
to Bournemouth central
police station on the mainland
to be interviewed about
the attack on di Crozier
and the murder of Karl furman.
Jim. nice of you to pop by.
But before he goes. we can talk
to him about Tony sallinger. right?
No. You can liaise with whoever's
dealing with him over there.
and I'm sure they'll pass
on anything relevant.
I repeat. no-one speaks to Ian.
I understand tempers are running high.
but what's required now
is diligence and calm.
This is a colossal.
sprawling. shitty mess.
so let's not make it any shittier.
Ok. everyone. back to work.
Do you want the toilet?
No.
I'm all right. Tommy.
Don't use my fucking name.
You want the toilet?
Yeah.
Please.
You're not going to
beat me up. are you. Jim?
No. I'll leave attacking
police officers to you. Ian.
Right. start from the beginning.
talk me through swapping Tony's bloods.
We'd been called out to
a punch-up in a nightclub.
Two concussions. broken jaw.
Get on with it. come on. Yeah.
It was a mess.
In the hospital. that's when I saw Tony.
He was in a right state
because it was just after
the accident. and he said...
That he'd pay me if I
took the test for him.
He said he'd pay me 50 grand.
What about Karl furman?
I removed his first
statement from the report.
The one saying that Tony was drunk.
He still changed his statement
when it came to the inquest.
Why?
Because Tony paid him to.
Did Tony tell you that?
No.
Karl did.
When you killed him.
Ok.
Right...
So. you and Tony. you
were at his wedding...
And he gets up and he
says "no more secrets".
and you can see the
whole thing unravelling.
He's going to tell the world
what happened. including how
you swapped the blood
sample. You can't let that happen.
I never killed him. I swear!
Then who did?
Who did? Did you call someone?
Is that who the figure in the coat is?
I've no idea who that is. I
brought you those pictures!
I'm putting my hand up to the bloods.
I'm putting my hand
up to Karl and to Barney.
So why would I lie
about Tony? I'd admit it.
I need to show willing here
because I am royally fucked here.
I'm a dead man.
I am talking to you so... So
that you can vouch for me. yeah?
You can say. "he's ok. He made
some mistakes but he's all right."
But. Ian. I'm upstairs right now.
What did you do with the 50 grand?
I can't even remember.
He says he didn't kill Tony but he's lying.
Ok. I'm going back to the hotel.
I need to talk to the staff. ask
if he was acting suspiciously.
Maybe they saw him with
someone. I'll come with you.
We'll get there quicker that
way. No. it's ok. Instead. can...
Of course. Good plan.
There's two waiters we
haven't spoken to yet.
You want to start with them
or go back to the beginning
and re-interview the lot?
Before we do that...
Give us the room. Ok.
Sorry.
So. ok. this was pretty much
how the room was. right?
Close the door. please.
No...
No. wait. the top table. where
Tony and Monica were sat. was there.
Move these chairs.
Ok. log on to the cms.
get the seating plan.
- And all the guests' photos.
- We'll need them. too.
Ok. so Tony was there. and
when he said "no more secrets".
he was staring straight
ahead. so... Where was Ian?
Yep... Over there.
Really? Yeah.
So who was Tony looking at?
What?
What is it?
Tony wasn't looking at Ian
when he said "no more secrets".
He was looking at Monica.
Subtitles by red bee media